# T.U.L.I.P
The acrostic: Total depravity, Unconditional election, Limited atonement,
Irresistible grace, and the Perseverance of the Saints is shorthand for what is
known as the Five points of Calvinisum or The Doctrines of Grace

This application does not have any advertisement, or sponsors. It does not save
your information on-line, nor send any information to a third party. All prayer
items are stored on your device alone. Meaning it the application is removed
then the prayer list is also removed, since it is not externally persisted.

This application was created to provide a means to dig deeper into the Doctrine
of Grace, and provide references which can be used daily as a reminder of God's
sovereignty and love. it is my sincere hope you enjoy it.

## Summary
The Five Points of Calvinism, occasionally known by the mnemonic TULIP,
constitute a summary of Reformed soteriology. Named after John Calvin, they
largely reflect the teaching of the Canons of Dort. The Five Points of Calvinism
assert that God saves every person upon whom he has mercy, and that his efforts
are not frustrated by the unrighteousness or inability of humans. They have been
summarized under the acrostic TULIP.

### 1. Total Depravity
Because of the fall, man in his natural condition apart from any work of grace 
is guilty before God, hostile to God and good, inclined only toward evil 
continually, spiritually dead and unable to save himself. Sin has so affected 
every part of man (mind, will, emotions) that he cannot and will not by nature 
turn from sin and believe in Christ to be saved. Rather, he will exercise his 
will in rebellion against God and the pursuit of sin.

### 2. Unconditional Election
Election refers to God’s choosing of certain individuals unto salvation before 
the foundation of the world. This choice is unconditional in that it is not 
based on any merit in the sinner or any foreseen response from the sinner, but 
rests only in the sovereign wisdom and good pleasure of God. Repentance and 
faith are the result of election not the cause of election. Apart from the 
election of grace, none would be saved for none would seek after God.

### 3. Limited Atonement (Definite or Particular Redemption)
The doctrine of limited atonement (perhaps better referred to as definite 
atonement or particular redemption) addresses the extent of Christ’s atoning 
work on the cross. It answers the question, “For whom did Christ die?” More 
specifically, it grapples with the question of what Christ’s death actually 
accomplished: did it merely make salvation possible for those who might believe 
or did His death actually accomplish and secure the salvation of His elect?  
The Scriptures teach that Christ’s death actually achieved the salvation of 
those for whom He died. Christ’s death was not general, but particular and 
definite in its aim. Christ died for the elect. He died for His bride, the 
Church. And His death actually accomplished all that was necessary to secure 
the everlasting salvation of His people. Christ’s death on the cross cancels 
the debt of their sin, satisfies the holy wrath of God, and wins for His people 
all the benefits of salvation, including the gifts of repentance, faith and new 
life by the Spirit.  While Scripture references will be listed below to support 
this understanding of Christ’s death on the cross, it should be noted that 
limited atonement is best understood by a careful study of the meaning of union 
with Christ by faith as well as the great terms used in the NT to describe 
Christ’s cross-work, such as: redemption, reconciliation, propitiation, 
substitution, satisfaction.

### 4. Irresistible Grace
Because man is spiritually dead in sin, only a sovereign work of God can 
overcome man’s rebellion against God and bring him to faith in Christ. 
Irresistible grace refers to that special inward work of God the Holy Spirit 
whereby a sinner is made spiritually alive and given the gifts of repentance 
and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. God’s sovereign work of grace can and will 
overcome all resistance when He wills to draw His elect to saving faith in 
Jesus Christ.

### 5. Perseverance of the Saints
All those so chosen by God before time, redeemed by Christ, effectually called 
by God to faith in Christ and given new life in the Spirit, will be finally 
saved. This is not simply a matter of eternal security, though it includes 
that. Scripture teaches that the saints will be kept in persevering faith and 
the obedience of faith by the power of God to the end. The fruits of conversion 
will be evident in their lives, though not without remaining sin.

## Credits
This application is brought to you by Dr. M. Keith Foskey and Sovereign Grace
Family Church, Jacksonville, FL

### Follow
You can follow Keith on X and Instagram: @YourCalvinist, and you can visit
Sovereign Grace Family Church on line at https://sgfcjax.org/

## Finally
I hope this application will be an inspiration to dig deeper into Scripture,
and into the Doctrines of Grace. If you are curious, have any questions or
comments feel free to reach out. If not to me, then find a good Bible believing
Church and talk to them. If you would like prayer, for any reason, let me know
so that I can lift you up.

And, if you find yourself in the Jacksonville Fl area, please come by and visit.
We would love to meet you and talk to you.
